That sounds fine. It seems a bit overkill to do them separately.
So yes, good morning and thank you for inviting us here today.
The two DTAs that we're presenting today are with Iceland
and Croatia.
Both represent a growth in our treaty network,
and enhance our economic connections, in particular in connection with
recently signed or ratified free trade agreements.
While trade with both countries is small, it is stable and there is
potential for growth, particularly leveraging those agreements.
In addition, and in relation to Croatia, New Zealand does have a substantial
community of persons of Croatian heritage, which represents
longstanding links with that country.
In terms of what's actually in the treaties, both treaties are
standard DTAs, double taxation agreements for New Zealand.
We obtained all our key negotiating positions, and neither
agreement contains a non-standard
allocative, that is, a provision that relates to either
taxing rights or rates. So both of them are quite standard in that form.
The only notable change from our normal approach is found in the Croatian
treaty. That text includes an explicit provision
confirming that the protocol is integral to the DTA.
That was a Croatian request. Our normal approach is to have them as
two connected but separately signed parts of the agreement.
However, MFAT confirmed that was a perfectly acceptable approach.
I now welcome any questions from you.
There appears to be none.
Move on to the next one.
That's both of them.
That's it? None on-
Yeah, there's nothing more to say about Iceland.
Croatia's the one with the interesting little feature.
As I say, they're both very standard.
They tend to be fairly pro forma these-
They're very pro forma.
We've got a question from Pamela Belich.
Thank you. As someone with Croatian heritage, I thought I-
Yeah
... should ask a question.
There is an unusual policy that Croatia has in relation to
taxation that they recently imposed, I understand, where
people are not subject to income tax for a period of time when they
first
live there. Does that-
Sounds right
... quite unusual. Well, I think that's-
Well, it's moving
... the purpose.
People can move there and not pay
tax. So is that relevant at all to this agreement, or it wouldn't-
So the agreement, I'll just get the residence provision, but normally our
agreements sort of have requirements about who can actually be a
covered person. Let me just get the Croatian treaty.
However, off the top of my head, I know that Croatia has done a similar
thing to our recent non-resident visitor policy,
in that you can live there, but you cannot, for example, work for
a
Croatian employer. So let me just check.
Our residence provision says-
Standard
I think it is standard.
Which is
investment vehicles.
Yeah. The
provision of the residence article is in a
fairly standard form. It does have additional things about entities, which isn't
relevant to your question.
But the usual position is with a treaty that a
person is liable to tax in the country to benefit.
Fundamentally, treaties are about double taxation and relieving double taxation,
so that's sort of a-
So if there was no tax there, then that wouldn't be-
There's-
Because they'd just be paying-
Less of a room for at the individual level, less of a reason for the
treaty.
Yeah.
Carmen?
Thank you.
Yeah.
Countries are bringing in these rules that give temporary,
they're usually time-limited.
Yeah. Five years, I think it is.
Yeah. And we have our own transitional residence
rules and have a treaty, if you
want to deny treaty benefits, you normally have to call it out on the treaty,
and most countries don't call it out because they're temporary, and
because
...
But it'll come down to individual facts and circumstances
in the end of any given case. But, yeah.
Thank you. Thanks. We've got a follow-up forensic question from Dan Bidois.
Yeah. I thought I should also chime in here, that my wife and son are both Croatian
citizens-
Oh.
... dual citizens.
Given that there are quite a few dual citizens between Croatia and New Zealand, are
there any tax
intricacies for
dual citizens, or?
So I don't think we have an analysis of the number of dual
citizens. What we do have is a general indication of the population size
of Croatian heritage, which may, of course, be much further back.
Mm.
The implications for dual citizens tend to be nil because tax
treaties address questions of tax residence,
and of course, domestically, that will arise under each country's rules, but most
countries, for example, use a one eight three-day rule-
Mm
... as a basis. So really, in order for this treaty
to impact, it won't impact on the basis of citizenship, it will
impact on the basis of tax residence.
Tax residency.
Yeah.
Okay. As long as-
I mean, US-
... your wife and son don't leave you
and go.
The US is the only country which taxes its-
Mm
... citizens, and so that's when it does, you do have special provisions
on the treaty to deal with it.
Great.
But, yeah.
Thank you both very much.
Yes.
Thanks for coming.
All right. Thank you.
Thank you.
Well done.
Cup of coffee on the way home.